docs: add current architecture (#80)
aukilabs/posemesh: docs/02-current-architecture.md

| **Staking**                | Locking tokens in a contract as a financial commitment and to become eligible.                                                                              |
| **Burning**                | Permanently removing tokens from circulation by sending them to an address with no private key.                                                             |
| **Credits**                | Accounting units (1 credit ≈ 1 USD) issued when developers burn AUKI; consumed when clients access/consume network resources.                               |
| **Participation Rewards**  | A finite amount of AUKI tokens in the Reward Pool used to reward early adopters helping bootstrapping the network; coming from the treasury foundation.     |
| **Performance Rewards**    | The *infinite* amount of AUKI token minted to the Reward Pool when AUKI tokens are burned; used to reward Operators according to monitored performances.    |
| **Domain Data**            | Files (maps, meshes, anchors, assets) that describe a physical domain; stored on Data Nodes.                                                               |

> | **Pose Data**              | Low‑latency streams of poses, transforms, and entity updates exchanged via Relay Nodes.                                                                     |

Reviewer: not sure if this is true, poses are part of domain data as well, portal poses are stored on Data Nodes

Author: i removed it

|----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Network Credit Service** | Mints Credits after on‑chain burns; debits Credits per access; calculates periodic reward allocations.                                               |
| **Discovery Service**      | Registers nodes and Domains; tracks health (uptime, latency, geolocation); exposes discovery API to SDK; listens to staking events for eligibility.  |
| **Auth**                   | (Web2 for MVP) Organisation/user/app auth and wallet binding.                                                                                        |
| **BEL**                    | Bridges on‑chain events to backend.                                                                                                                  |

---

## Node Types

| Node                   | Description                                                  | Reward Basis    |
|------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------|

> | **Relay Node**         | Hosts real‑time sessions, routing Pose Data between clients. | Uptime × Stake  |

Reviewer: I think it does more than pose data, and to be honest relay doesn't care if it is pose data or not

# Posemesh $AUKI MVP - Technical Architecture Overview

> How we built the posemesh first iteration

## Background

> The posemesh began as a web‑2 solution to solve real businesses' problem. It proved the tech works, but it still relies
> on Aukilabs’ own infrastructure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The posemesh began as a web2 solution to solve real business problems. It proved the tech works, but it still relies
on Auki's own infrastructure.
```

Or "Auki Labs' own infrastructure". But there is no such thing as "Aukilabs".

| **Domain NFT** (ERC‑1155) | Non‑fungible (or semi‑fungible) tokens representing Domains.                                              |

All contracts follow the **UUPS proxy upgrade pattern**, are written in **Foundry** with **OpenZeppelin** libraries, and
have passed a security audit.

---

## Backend Services (temporarily off‑chain)

> **Goal: migrate as much logic on‑chain as feasible in future releases.**
>

| Service                    | Responsibilities                                                                                                                                    |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Network Credit Service** | Mints Credits after on‑chain burns; debits Credits per access; calculates periodic reward allocations.                                              |
| **Discovery Service**      | Registers nodes and Domains; tracks health (uptime, latency, geolocation); exposes discovery API to SDK; listens to staking events for eligibility. |

> | **Auth**                   | (Web2 for MVP) Organisation/user/app auth and wallet binding.                                                                                       |

Author: Yes, let use the opportunity to come up with name that are relevant to what the service is doing.

> | **Auth**                   | (Web2 for MVP) Organisation/user/app auth and wallet binding.                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: It would be good to rename more services at some point. This is what we discussed back in 2023. But we can start with this first...

## Service list
* api
* layer-service
* domain-space-mapping-service
* hagall-discovery-service / hds
* hagall
* domain-service (upcoming)
* domain-discovery-service / dds (upcoming)
* hms
* hms-api (upcoming)
* Network Credits Account Service (upcoming)
* Blockchain Event Listener Service (upcoming)

| Current name                      | Internal/External | Centralized     | Online | New name proposal               | New name proposal 2 |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------- | --------------- | ------ | ------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| api                               | E                 | Y               | Y      | core-api                        | common-api |
| api                               | E                 | Y               | Y      | admin-api                       | admin-api  |
| layer-service                     | E                 | Y               | Y      | layer-api                       | |
| domain-space-mapping-service      | E                 | Y               | Y      | domain-session-mapping-api | demo-domain-session-mapping-api |
| hds                               | E                 | Y               | Y      | hagall-discovery-api            | |
| hagall                            | E                 | N               | Y      | hagall                          | |
| domain-service                    | E                 | N               | N      | domain-api                      | |
| dds                               | E                 | Y               | N      | domain-discovery-api            | |
| hms                               | I                 | Y               | N      | hagall-metric-scraper           | hagall-metric-service |
| hms-api                           | E                 | Y               | N      | hagall-metric-api               | |
| Network Credits Account Service   |                   |                 |        | network-credit-account-api     | |
| Blockchain Event Listener Service |                   |                 |        | blockchain-event-listener       | |

> | **Auth**                   | (Web2 for MVP) Organisation/user/app auth and wallet binding.                                                                                       |

Reviewer 2: Now it became service instead of api :(

> | **Auth**                   | (Web2 for MVP) Organisation/user/app auth and wallet binding.                                                                                       |

Author: I misunderstood, I will replace service by api :)
